# os-scheduling
Process Scheduling


  For this project our goal was to develop a simulator for four different scheduling algorithms: First in First out(FIFO), Shortest Job First (SJF), Round Robin (RR), and  Priority Precedence (PP). FIFO is fairly intuitive as the first process to be scheduled on the CPU runs to completion and then the next scheduled process runs ect. SJF will always complete the shortest job first regardless of chronological scheduling order. RR is an algorithm where each process gets the same amount of time to run on the cpu. Finally, PP is where each process is given a priority number one through four, where one is the highest priority and four corresponds to the lowest priority, and run by order of priority. 
  This program is written entirely in C++ code. In order to run this program you first need a input file where you can specify the algorithm you will be using, number of processes, number of cpu cores, and process length (in seconds). After modifying your input file you will then need to run the makefile which will compile the C++ into an executable file. Which you will then run the executable file. After running a "window" will display in your terminal allowing you to see how the algorithm you selected runs in regard to each of the processes you defined in your input file. You will be able to visually see each individual process moved on and off the cpu until complete. We were given some starter code to begin which we had to add to/modify in order to complete the program.
  The context where this can be useful is within modern day operating systems whether that be on your personal computer, phone, or any other device which allows for interaction with a user. All computers nowadays have multiple cores so it is more efficient to run multiple processes spread over multiple cores. This simulator allows us to do exactly that and provide visual feedback for what we take for granted behind the scenes.  
    
